---
permalink: /
title: "About Me"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---
I am a senior research scientist and big data engineer at Ctrees, a non-profit tech startup based in Pasadena, California. Additionally, I hold a researcher position at the Institute of the Environment and Sustainability (IoES) at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA).

In my previous role, from 2019 to 2023, I worked as a researcher at the Laboratory of Geo-information Science and Remote Sensing at Wageningen University, the Netherlands. During this time, my focus was on the development of radar and deep learning methods for near-real-time forest change monitoring. Prior to that, from 2018 to 2019, I conducted postdoctoral research at the University of Twente, the Netherlands, where I explored deep learning methodologies for crop classification using polarimetric Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) data. I completed my Ph.D. (2017) in  Radar Remote Sensing at the University of Twente in Enschede, The Netherlands.  

I have established myself as a leader in developing operational SAR-based near-real-time environmental monitoring systems. At Wageningen University, I contributed as a postdoctoral researcher to the development of the Radar Alerts for Detecting Deforestation (RADD) system, which provides forest disturbance alerts across the pan-tropics using Sentinel-1 C-band SAR data. Building on this experience, I designed and developed [LUCA](https://ctrees.org/luca) at Ctrees, an advanced SAR-based monitoring platform that delivers bi-weeky forest land use change alerts globally using Sentinel-1's cloud penetrating radar data. LUCA leverages my expertise in scalable cloud computing architectures, combining Google Earth Engine, Google Cloud Platform, and advanced machine learning pipelines to process massive volumes of satellite remote sensing data. The system is now operationally deployed and actively used by conservation organizations, government agencies, and research institutions worldwide for forest change monitoring, law enforcement, and environmental protection. [LUCA](https://ctrees.org/luca) represents the successful translation of academic research into a practical tool that delivers actionable intelligence for environmental stewardship at a high resolution globally.

My research interests revolve around leveraging microwave remote sensing and machine learning techniques to enhance the accuracy and efficiency of environmental monitoring. Specifically, I focus on image and signal processing and information extraction from SAR, PolSAR, and InSAR data using advanced machine learning such as deep learning. Throughout my career, I have contributed to cutting-edge deep learning models for SAR and PolSAR image despeckling, PolSAR image semantic segmentation, as well as SAR time-series forecast and segmentation. Moreover, I have extensive experience in building large-scale remote sensing data processing pipelines in Google Earth Engine and Google Cloud to enable near-real-time change monitoring at a global scale. I have published more than 25 peer reviewed articles with more than 1500 combined citations.

I am an active member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), IEEE Geoscience and Remote Sensing Society (IEEE GRSS) and American Geophysical Union (AGU). I actively engage in professional communities and routinely contribute to the field of remote sensing and geosciences by presenting my work in conferences and publishing in the proceedings. Additionally, I serve as a referee for several esteemed journals, including IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, IEEE Geoscience and Remote Sensing Letters, and IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Applied Earth Observations and Remote Sensing.
